SQL-Doubts

Tcl-it does not affect DDL

orderby-null:
In desc the null appears in last  if we want to move first we use nulls first.
In asc the null appears in first if we want to move last we use nulls last.

full join 5 *10:
All rows from Table A
All rows from Table B
Matches where possible
NULLs where there is no match

self join:
Find products in a same category
SELECT 
  p1.name AS product,
  p2.name AS recommended_product
FROM 
  products p1
JOIN 
  products p2
ON 
  p1.category_id = p2.category_id
AND 
  p1.product_id != p2.product_id;

union differnt column name with same data type:
UNION to combine results from two or more queries, even if the column names are different, as long as the data types are compatible and the number of columns match.

adding check to existing table having data that is violating check:
In most databases (like PostgreSQL, SQL Server, Oracle): The ALTER TABLE command will fail if any existing row violates the new CHECK constraint.
In MySQL (especially older versions): The CHECK constraint might be silently ignored or not enforced depending on the storage engine.
If we want to enforce the constraint
1.Clean the data first using delete function where age<20
2.ALTER TABLE people VALIDATE CONSTRAINT age_check; validate the constraint.

auto_increament:
It is attribute or property.It is not a constraint.

null and space:
🔹 NULL
Represents missing, unknown, or undefined data.
It means no value has been assigned.
You cannot compare NULL using = or <>; instead, you use IS NULL or IS NOT NULL.
🔹 Space (' ')
A space is a valid string value consisting of a single whitespace character.
It is not empty and definitely not NULL.
You can compare it using =, like column_name = ' '.

view-delete:
It doesn't store data but it displays data.
we can delete data from view when it is active.

duplecate records without any key:
A table can have duplicate records if it does not have any key like a primary key or unique constraint defined.

Second Normal Form (2NF):
It is in First Normal Form (1NF) (i.e., no repeating groups or arrays).
All non-key attributes are fully functionally dependent on the entire primary key.

Third Normal Form (3NF)
It is in 2NF.
There are no transitive dependencies (i.e., non-key attributes do not depend on other non-key attributes).